Following on from the work in
accurate unlexicalized parsing,
it was then an extension.
Which lead to latent variable PCFGs, which
I'm not going to go through in detail.
But I just want to briefly introduce
the idea of, and show you how it works.
So in the model that we
are looking at previously, for
accurate unlexicalized PFCGs,
everything was hand done.
Someone was staring at sentences and
how they parsed.
And deciding how better
to split the categories
to build a parser that would work better.
So if you're interested in machine
learning, you should be thinking gee,
maybe we could do that automatically
rather than doing it all manually.
And so
that's the idea of latent variable PCFGs.
So the starting point is,
we still have a treebank to train on.
So the bracketing of the sentences and
the training data are known, and
the base categories are known.
So that we have a noun phrase node that's
in some context, and we already know that.
But what we're saying is,
well maybe there's someway that we'd like
to annotate it for more information.
To say what kind of a noun phrase is it so
that we can parse it more accurately.
And so concretely, the way that
that's being done is by splitting
the noun phrase category into
a certain number of subcategories.
Where each one is just been given
a number, so, this is an NP 17.
And so then the learning task is to
choose both a number of subcategories.
And then how to group all
of the noun phrases in
the training data into
particular subcategories.
So that you can have something
in common in all the NP17s.
So that you can then have good
predictions as to how they expand and
which words they contain.
I'm not going to go through
that algorithm in detail.
If you've seen things in other
classes like machine learning or
probabilistic graphical models.
It's a form of the Algorithm like
before back when algorithms used
HMMs constrained by
the pre-existing tree structure.
So, what you're doing is you have
the pre-existing tree structure in black.
And you're wanting to have
a probability distribution over
different latent sub
states of each category.
And the simplest way of doing
this would just be to say okay,
each category has ten subcategories.
And then learn a probability
distribution over the choice of
different subcategories for the S state.
That had been tried previously and
not been found to not work very well.
So, what Slav Petrov introduced was
a clever split/merge algorithm.
Where for each category you started
with just the single category of an S.
And you said, okay let's try and
split that into two S categories.
Is there a good way to split it to
capture more conditioning information?
Yes, let's keep that split,
okay, we'll try again.
Let's take each of those and
split them into two and so
we have four S subcategories.
And then maybe at that point you discover
that one of those splits was useful and
the other one wasn't.
So you just get rid of the other again,
go back to three S subcategories.
And you'd repeat that over a number of
times and so you'd progressively split and
merge the subcategories.
And come out with a good number
of sets of different categories.
Yeah again, I'm not going to go
through the algorithm in detail,
let's just look at how it turns out.
So this shows some of the subcategories
that are learned for part of speech tags,
because they're the easiest
ones to interpret.
This is for proper nouns, and so
what we find is that the proper
nouns have been divided into groups.
And the way they're divided
isn't just purely syntactic like
a feature based grammar anymore.
They're syntactico somatic
class based models so
we have a sub category of proper nouns,
which is abbreviations for months.
We have another that's first names,
another one that's initials,
another one that's last names of people.
And then,
we have two corresponding states here for
what are location names
which are multiword.
And again, we have a first word here and
a last word here.
So, we have these interesting
semantic subclasses of nouns.
And something similar to that is happening
also with the personal pronouns.
So we're having the ones that
are the normative subject pronouns and
we're having the ones that
are the accusative object pronouns.
And then,
we're also then distinguishing between
the subject ones as to whether
they're capitalized or not.
Which is maybe capturing something
that were there at the beginning of
the sentence.
And a word isn't restricted or
only appear in one category.
It can be in the rewrite
of multiple categories,
so it appears in both these places.
Because it's used as both a nominative and
accusative pattern.
Looking overall at the pattern
of state splits by phrases,
this actually works interestingly and
linguistically very effectively.
So for the common categories like noun
phrase, verb phrase, prepositional phrase.
But equally the ones where the basic
categories of the pin treebank were
too crude, that's what we found out
previously with our hand state splits.
We found that we wanted to
distinguish possessive noun phrases.
And we wanted to distinguish verb phrases,
depending on whether they're infinitive,
to verb phrases.
Where they're in verb phrases or
whether they are finite verb phrases.
Well in those places,
the split merge algorithm
learns a lot of sub
categories as learning 25,
35 or so subcategories.
On the other hand, for
the rare weird categories on the unlike
constituent phrase or
right recursive clauses, the fragments.
It's learning very few subcategories.
In fact for these ones over here,
it's making no splits at all,
and it's just having
the single treebank category.
So within building a grammar that is
making splits which aren't purely
syntactic, it's also got
semantically flavoured splits.
But it's still much courser than
actually doing headword lexicalization.
So in the models that
I'm showing you here,
the maximum possible number of splits
that could happen to a category was 64.
And in practice, at most a reasonable
number of them survives.
In practice you are always getting less
than 40 as you can see in this example.
So with just that level
of state splitting,
how well can you make a parser work?
And the answer turned out to be you can
make a parser that worked amazingly well.
So, this slide shows you
current parsing results for
the parsers that are around when
I'm saying this around 2012.
So we start off again with our
basic PCFG at around 72.7%,
F1, and we're working up from there.
And I'm showing two columns of results.
A lot of early parts of results were
showing on sentences up to at most
40 words.
Whereas more recently it's
been more common to show
results on all sentences of any length.
Our baseline now is this unlexicalized
parser of Klein & Manning and
so sentences of all lengths,
it's getting a little under 86% here.
Matsuzaki et al.,
tried the simple idea of splitting
each category with latent states.
But just assuming the same number
of latent states for each category.
And that didn't really work any better.
In particular, both of these
parsers are still noticeably below
what you could get by doing
lexicalized PCFGs with head words.
So the best of the Charniak Collins
family of lexicalized
PCFGs was this more recent
model of Eugene Charniak
from 2000, and it was getting 89.5%.
And so it seemed like maybe this
3.5% gap was the value that you were
getting from lexicalization beyond what
you got from this basic state splitting.
But, what the latent-variable
PCFG showed is, well,
actually you could get all
that value without actually
modeling particular head words.
But just using these fairly
cost semantic classes of words.
So in the latent variable,
PCFG is actually a little bit better.
And it's getting this
extra half a percent here.
You kind of can't explain in
absolute versions why it's better.
Because really it's using less condition
information than Charniak's parser.
So the reason it's better is because
the probability estimation is better.
And it's better because it's a lot easier
to do here because you have a much
more number of categories in the grammar.
And you're not having to do
complicated smoothing with head words.
Now people have gone on and
done further work with lexicalized PCFGs.
And so in particular using Charniak and
Mark Johnson work together to add
a descriptive reranker on
top of the Charniak parser.
So, this discriminative reranker is
essentially using a maxim model of
the kind that we saw in week four.
But applying it now to choose between
different parsers for a sentence.
Where the candidate parsers are being
generated by Charniak generative parsers,
so this is feeding into that.
And while the mexant model was again
able to do this better form of
probabilistic conditioning
which definitely helped.
So that was then adding about 2% in
performance to the Charniak parser.
And in particular adding a little bit
still above the level of the Petrov and
Klein parser.
But still noticeably,
knowing that individual particular head
words is still now only giving
you about 1.3% in performance.
And finally as always in machine learning
context, if you have a bunch of systems.
A bunch of classifiers are doing things,
you can always get even better results
by combining them all together.
And people have shown that.
So Fossum and Knight combined
various constituent parsers and
their performance into an aggregate model.
And that was able to get
an extra percent of performance.
So this is the state of
the art at the moment for
performance in probabilistic parsing.
Which actually is an extremely
high level of accuracy.
Probabilistic parses actually can
give you the right parsers for
most parts of most
sentences quite reliably.
So shows the idea of having these
latent states, when you allow them to be
defined to maximize past performance.
You get these syntactico-semantic states,
which really allow you to parse rather
well, still with a quite compact grammar.